[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: In
my last conversation
with Randall Carlson, we
discussed the ancient meaning
behind some of the more
well-known numbers used
in sacred texts.
Today we're going to look at
how those numbers, geometry,
geology, and sacred and
mystical architecture
tell us about our human
history, both past and future.
And that goes to some
pretty grim places
in terms of the
human experience,
in terms of catastrophe,
cycles of catastrophe.
And I just want to say we ended
our last show talking I said,
so what's up with 666?
How did it get this
beastly connotation?
And that led us to
the conversation.
You said, well, it's classically
always connected with the sun.
>>RANDALL CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: How can the sun
have a beastly connotation?
And that's where we
left our conversation.
>>CARLSON: Well, it brings us
to the idea of a variable sun.
Now, this is something that's
been very controversial
within scientific circles
and is by no means accepted.
And particularly
these days, there's
been a-- I'll call it an
agenda to dismiss any evidence
for a variable sun.
Because once we recognize
that the sun may
vary in its intensity or what
Jay Widener has been working
with is the idea of
coronal mass ejections-
that was the subject of
Robert Schoch's last book.
I think there's a considerable
amount of evidence
that supports the idea
of a variable sun.
Of course, that goes contrary
to some of the agendas today
that are attempting to dismiss
the influence of the sun
as far as questions
of climate change.
>>REGINA: Oh, that
becomes very political.
>>CARLSON: It does.
>>REGINA: We've got
carbon tax credits that
need to be allocated and
people who benefit from those.
And so that's a
political agenda.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
But I think that
there's enough evidence
out there, both from the hard
scientific realm but also
from the archaic traditions,
to suggest that the sun has
a degree of
variability that could
have considerable consequences
for life on Earth.
And so I think that if
we're talking about 666
being a solar number-- and
there are many examples of that,
and these are some of the kinds
of things that I can actually
provide on my website, some
of the more detailed analysis
and examples of these
things for people to access
and how that shows up in
ancient traditions and so on.
But the idea, I think, is
that there could be times
when the sun's output
changes, for whatever reason,
and it, again, could have
considerable consequences
as far as life on the
surface of the Earth.
In Jay's book that he
wrote on the Hendaye stone,
there is an effigy
on one of the faces
of the stone of the solar
orb where it clearly
seems to signify that there are
two degrees of radiant output
to the sun.
And it very much recapitulates
some of the symbolism
that we've actually found like
that shows up into the Tarot
deck, this idea that
the sun may have
two types of radiant output.
And so I think that possibly
the negative connotation
could come from a tradition
or a knowledge of--
>>REGINA: A catastrophic
event at the hands
of the sun, so to speak.
>>CARLSON: You've
got it, exactly.
Thank you for putting
those words in my mouth.
That's what I was trying to say.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] What the sun
giveth, the sun can taketh away
by way of life.
>>CARLSON: And I
mentioned to you earlier,
I think maybe on the break, that
a culture, for example, living
in the Sahara Desert is going
to have a different relationship
with the sun, say, than
the Scandinavians living
at 60 degrees north
latitude where
the sun shows two or three
months out of the year.
And so I think that
that's possibly
what is being implicated
here, is this idea
that the number 666,
number one, it's
always associated with
the sun, archangels
of the sun, many
different gods associated
with the sun, Abraxas
and Mithras and so on.
But actually, in the
biblical verse itself,
it doesn't really necessarily
imply a negative connotation.
The biblical verse
reads, here is
wisdom; let him who
hath understanding count
the number of the beast,
for it in the number
of man, 600 threescore and six.
Now, the assumption is in the
more fundamentalist models
they're extracted from
the biblical writings.
There's a conflation of the
beast, the Antichrist, Lucifer,
the devil.
I think these are all
distinct concepts.
And we can't just
necessarily interchange them.
The beast is not necessarily
the same as diablo, the devil.
It's not necessarily the same
as Lucifer, the quote unquote,
which literally translates
as "bringer of light."
And that always puzzled me.
And we can come back to
that as we proceed here
when we start talking about--
>>REGINA: Well, we've
delved into the Urantia work
quite a bit in a
few interviews also
that talks about the
nature of Lucifer
and the Luciferian
rebellion and what
happened in those early
times as well, yeah.
>>CARLSON: And that's
something I've never really
had the time to access
is the Urantia works.
>>REGINA: You're busy.
>>CARLSON: There's a lot
of information out there.
>>REGINA: It's a
big book. [LAUGHS]
>>CARLSON: Yeah.
My focus has been on
I'm trying to bridge
the archaic traditions with
modern scientific findings.
>>REGINA: Yes, well,
let's talk about
modern scientific
findings and solar flares.
What are some of the
common things that
occur that we know of
that they've already
been able to chronicle when it
comes to sizable solar flares.
>>CARLSON: Oh, yeah,
I mean obviously
our technologies are vulnerable.
And that's a concern.
And up to this point,
we've been lucky.
The intensity of these
events hasn't been such
that it's caused any kind
of a serious economic effect
or technological breakdown.
And this is not my
field of expertise,
but certainly for that,
I think Jay and people
like Robert Schoch who've
really gone into this
have made a pretty strong case
that that's one of the factors.
>>REGINA: Everybody
pretty much knows
about the notion of solar
flares and having some outages
in computer systems.
We know that.
That's subtle technology
that's working
with electrical impulses.
So we get it's having an effect
on those electrical systems.
So what's it doing
to our bodies, right?
It's having an effect on
our electromagnetic system--
>>CARLSON: Good question.
>>REGINA: --and the
planet and all life forms.
So you can see how--
I can understand
how the sun and
that connotation,
if you have a
sizable enough blast,
would not be considered a
positive event on the planet.
>>CARLSON: Yeah,
in mythology, we
see a lot of this where what
is normally a benevolent god
or goddess, like Hathor in
Egypt, Egyptian tradition,
was normally a very
benevolent, nurturing goddess,
but on occasion
she could lose it.
And then she would
transform into Sekhmet.
And you didn't want
to deal with Sekhmet.
Sekhmet was the
lion-headed goddess
who actually, at
the command of Ra,
went down and basically
slayed mankind.
In the Egyptian version of
the destruction of the world,
that was Sekhmet.
But Sekhmet was the destructive
counterpart to Hathor,
who is normally, like I said--
>>REGINA: Benevolent.
>>CARLSON: Right.
There's an old English proverb.
Let's see.
How does it go, again?
It's the idea that we
can't live without heat.
We can't live without the sun.
We can't live without water.
But in some cases, water
can be totally destructive.
And we'll be talking
about that as we
get on here and the stories
of the great deluge.
And when you've used
the term antedeluvian,
that means pre-flood.
And we've always
assumed to the extent
that rational science
has even acknowledged
the fact that there is this
widespread, universal tradition
of--
>>REGINA: In all
ancient religions.
>>CARLSON: Yes,
all over the world,
this myth about the destruction
of the world by water.
Not quite as well known,
but also very prevalent
are myths about the destruction
of the world by fire.
And if you look at the
Bible, interestingly, it's
kind of bookending.
At the front end in Genesis, we
have Noah and the destruction
of the world by water.
And then in the apocalyptic
visions at the end of the book,
it's the destruction
of the world by fire.
>>REGINA: And hellfire
and damnation.
>>CARLSON: Exactly, exactly.
Now, we can take those
and dismiss them out
of hand as just being
the superstitious ravings
or imaginations of a
pre-scientific, barbaric mind,
or we can acknowledge
that maybe, perhaps,
those traditions
reflect real events,
that there's a reality
behind those myths.
And as a geomythologist
or an astromythologist,
that is one of the
tenets of these emerging
disciplines of geomythology
and astromythology,
is that behind these
myths, there are realities
and that those myths can lead
us into a deeper understanding
of what those realities are.
>>REGINA: I think some of the
work-- I recently interviewed
David Talbot, who of course
is associated with Walter
Thornhill, and I think
a lot of their work
is demonstrating exactly that.
And they're even able to look
under electron microscopes
at the actual physical
phenomena that
created those ancient symbols
and what that meant on a larger
cosmological level.
So it is coming together.
It is coming together that
these weren't just stories.
And how do you
have one story that
persists throughout history
and across the globe?
>>CARLSON: Right,
well, one way around
that has always been to say,
well, if this or that tribe--
like American Indian tribes.
Well, they heard it
from missionaries.
>>REGINA: Yeah, right.
>>CARLSON: But look at like
for example George Catlin,
the famous Indian artist
who spent decades--
he wrote his book "Last Rambles
Amongst the American Indians."
He spent decades roaming around,
and he visited over 120 tribes
throughout North
and Central America.
And at the epilogue
of his book, that
amongst all of
these tribes, they
have many different traditions,
they many languages,
unique and different customs,
but what they all had in common
was a memory of a great deluge
and that their tribe, whichever
tribe, was descended from the
survivors of this great deluge.
Now, a big part of what I've
been doing over the last 20
years is travelling over North
America documenting the hard
physical evidence that yes,
there really was gigantic,
inconceivably huge floods
that swept over this continent
at the end of the last ice age.
And it's those
events that I think
are being preserved in these
Native American traditions.
>>REGINA: Yes, OK, so
let's talk about when
we're looking at cosmic patterns
and cycles of catastrophe.
That's the one that's
most commonly pointed to.
Now, we're looking
at generally now
it seems people are looking at
around 13,000 years ago, right?
Half of a precessional cycle.
>>CARLSON: Exactly, half
of a precessional cycle.
In the last show, we talked
about the number 25,920.
If you could take that
and cut that in half,
it's 12,960, which is--
>>REGINA: Which is rounding
it out to 26 and 13.
>>CARLSON: 26 and
13, yeah, but just
to tie it back to those sacred
numbers we were talking about.
25, 30 years ago, as
I was immersing myself
into the studies of
these archaic traditions
about patterns and cycles
and so forth, those numbers
kept coming up over
and over again, right?
It was clear to me
that they sure seemed
to be pointing to
something happening,
say, 13,000 years ago.
Now, while I'm doing
this, and actually I
gave a series of lectures at
Warren Wilson College in 1996,
where I was pointing
out that as a date,
that something extraordinary
happened, right?
And I at that point had not read
Graham Hancock's "Fingerprints
of the Gods" yet.
Unbeknownst to me, he
had just published a book
where he amasses
all of this evidence
and concludes that
all of this stuff
seems to be pointing
to something
at that epoch occurring, right?
So independently, we had
come to this same conclusion.
And I had come to it
mainly from looking
at ancient symbolism and
these ancient patterns
and the numbers that were
associated with them.
And when I traveled
over Europe in 1989,
one of the things
that I did was I
went to a lot of the cathedrals.
I was mainly looking
at the architecture.
But what really struck
me in the symbolism
particularly--
Chartres Cathedral
is a beautiful example, OK?
When you walk up to the Western
facade of Chartres Cathedral
at the Portal of
Judgment, as it's called,
and that's a reference
to judgment day, what
we see there is the effigy
of Christ, Christ in majesty,
seated within the
vesica, which is
the preeminent feminine symbol.
It's also the symbol
that represents
the inauguration of the
whole of sacred geometry.
Because through the
overlapping of two circles
of equal diameter such that
the circumference of one
falls on the center
of the other,
you get this-- a
mathematician would think it
as a Venn diagram,
this overlap, which
is this lozenge-shaped
almost boat-shaped figure.
And out of that emerges the
whole edifice of geometry,
the whole edifice of Euclidean
geometry, all of the forms
and patterns emerge from that.
So in a sense, it
is like a womb.
But it was also imagined as
a gateway between worlds,
between domains.
And in the case of
Chartres Cathedral
and many of the others, you see
the master sits in that vesica
as if he's the gatekeeper.
And he is usually pictured
with a book in hand.
Sometimes the book
is shown open.
Sometimes it's closed.
If it's open, that's indicating
within that symbolical edifice,
there is a teaching that is now
being divulged unto the world.
Yes.
The esoteric is
becoming exoteric.
If the book is closed, it's
indicating to the initiate
that there's a secret there,
a secret that's not yet
ready to be revealed
to the world.
And you'll see it both ways.
>>REGINA: And these
gatekeepers are often
known to us as prominent figures
in our religious history,
as beings who came along to
impart a certain knowledge
at a given time.
>>CARLSON: There are
effigies of Buddha
seated within the same vesica.
And vesica comes from
the same as the word
vessel, which means like a
container that carries us
from one domain to another, OK?
So in Chartres
Cathedral, you've got
Christ in majesty seated
within the vesica.
It's referred to
as the mandoral.
It's up in the tympanum
above the doorway.
Surrounding are the four
beasts of the apocalypse,
which are also the four
evangelists, Matthew, Mark,
Luke, and John, in
the exoteric sense.
In the esoteric sense, it
represents the four seasons
of the great year, right?
The bull is obviously Taurus.
The lion is obviously Leo.
The angel is Aquarius.
And the eagle is Aquila,
the constellation the ego
that rises with the
scorpion and is often
considered to be the celestial
counterpart of Scorpio,
of which Scorpio is the
terrestrial counterpart,
the positive and the
negative polarity of it.
But it represents, as a
symbol of time, the eagle
represents that same
moment, that same time
during the course of the year.
>>REGINA: Roughly a 5,500-year
portion of the cycle.
>>CARLSON: Well, actually
if you take the 25,920
and think of it as the four
seasons of the great year,
and each of those signs, Taurus,
Leo, Aquarius, and Scorpio,
they are the fixed signs.
And each of the
fixed signs is taken
to represent its seasonal
counterpart, right?
So Taurus is a symbol that
represents spring, right?
Leo represents summer
and so on, but likewise
within the great year.
So in the great
year model, there
is 12 months of the year,
symbolized by the 12 signs.
And there are four
seasons, symbolized
by the bull, the lion,
the eagle, and the angel,
or in some cases a
humanoid figure, right?
Well, if you divide the 25,920
to get the four seasons,
each comprised of three months,
or you multiply the three
months, which are
each 2,160, you
get 6,480 years for each one.
Now that's interesting, because
in our previous discussion,
we were talking about
the platonic solids.
The degree measure
of the dodecahedron,
which Plato conceived of as a
model of the universe, there
are 12 pentagonal faces.
Each of those faces, the sides
intersect at 108 degrees.
There are five vertices,
so it's 540 per face times
12 gives you 6,480 degrees,
measures the dodecahedron,
and 6,480 years measures
the duration of one season
of the great year.
>>REGINA: A quarter
>>CARLSON: A quarter
of the great year, yes.
Now, what I have
been doing is going
through hundreds and hundreds
of scientific articles,
going back 50 years, more
than that, going back really
even to the turn of the century
but accelerating as we get up
to the '70s and the '80s,
'90s as dating becomes better,
and looking at the events that I
think of as the discontinuities
within the uniform
change, the event nodes,
and plotting those.
And what we see
happening or what
I have seen happening in
that is that they cluster.
Now, I suspect that as
we refine our dating,
that clustering is
going to tighten up.
And what we're going
to see is that there
was major global change at
13,000 years ago, right?
And there was also
major-- not as profound,
but there was major global
change around 6,500 years ago.
If we go back to
the age of Scorpio,
for example, what we
find is that is what's
considered what they call the
LGM, the Late Glacial Maximum.
And it was during that
Age of Scorpio-- now,
the scientists, of course,
don't use that terminology,
but within the astronomical
or astrological sense,
the Age of Scorpio would
be that period roughly
bracketing 18,000 years ago.
And during that
time, the planet went
into this extreme deep
freeze, extremely cold,
I mean, just bitterly cold.
And the glaciers
worldwide expanded
to this enormous extent.
Roughly 6,000 years later,
come about 13,000 years,
what we find happening
is that there's
a succession of extreme warming
spasms, which up to this
point the cause of
which is unidentified.
But it's clearly happened.
And this can be documented by
multiple lines of evidence.
Marine geologists
and oceanographers
have looked at the
rise of sea level
at the end of the last
ice age and realized
that unlike what we thought
40, 50 years ago, that
would have been a nice smooth
rise over tens of thousands
of years, there were these
abrupt episodes of what
they call CREs,
Catastrophic Rise Events.
And there were two
major ones that
have now been identified that
are called meltwater pulse
1a, meltwater pulse 1b.
And what we see is that
superimposed upon what we would
think of as the
smooth curve, there
are these two huge
spikes of meltwater.
Now, in order to convert
glacial ice into meltwater
takes energy.
In the early '70s,
a team of scientists
held at a conference.
I think it was in 1972 or '73.
Some of the leading
glaciologists
and climatologists of the
day held this conference.
Now, radiocarbon dating was
invented in the early '50s
by Walter Libby.
20 years later,
they had accumulated
enough of these
radiocarbon dates
that they were now
being able to create
these models of climate change.
The previous idea of
this was that the ice age
had been this affair that
took 100,000 years to come on,
100,000 to disappear.
But now, they're suddenly
realizing it's only
a fraction of that time, see?
So what became
apparent by the early
'70s was that 18,000
years ago, from 18,000,
say, to 15,000
years ago, you had
somewhere around 6 million
cubic miles of glacial ice
piled up over North America,
Northwestern Europe.
Antarctica was probably
substantially bigger
than it is now.
And then 5,000 or 6,000
years later, it's gone.
>>REGINA: The ice is gone?
>>CARLSON: The ice is gone.
>>REGINA: And then
that comes back
into Graham Hancock's work.
And now you have a vegetation
showing in Antarctica.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
And one of the thing that Graham
Hancock has been focusing us on
is what's called
the Younger Dryas.
Younger Dryas was
this spell that
lasted about 1,300 years from
about, say, 12,900 years ago
to about 11,600, right in there.
Now, here's the
scenario as it is now
coming based upon the
cutting-edge evidence,
is that between 18,000 and
15,000 years ago, you've
got this full-blown ice
age, over-- all of Canada
is buried under an ice sheet,
where major cities are now,
like New York, Boston,
Philadelphia, Chicago,
the Twin Cities,
Detroit, Seattle.
All of those, the ice is
thousands of feet thick.
And when people start
thinking in geological terms,
they think, OK,
millions of years
or whatever, we're
talking 13,000 years ago,
which is not long at all
in the geological sense.
>>REGINA: So what happened over
that 1,300-year period of time?
>>CARLSON: Well,
here's what happened.
Somewhere between 15,000
and 13,000 years ago,
the ice began to shrink.
And it began to disappear.
And sea levels started rising.
And during that 2,000
years, the pace of change
would have been sort of what
one would have expected based
upon our observations of modern
glacial recession in the wake
of the Little Ice Age, which
lasted from about 1,400 years
AD to about 1850 AD.
And we should come back to
that, because this is important.
The Little Ice Age was an
analog for the Great Ice Age.
And the Little Ice
Age was a period
that essentially the planet
cooled and was colder than it
had been in 10,000 years.
And the glaciers worldwide,
while they weren't anywhere
near what they were
during the Great Ice Age,
were bigger during
the Little Ice Age,
again, than they had
been in 10,000 years.
So it's important when we
look at modern climate change
to understand that our baseline
is the end of the Little Ice
Age, right?
Well, now from
that, what we see is
that the ice that
had grown-- there
were whole villages,
like in the Swiss Alps,
for example, that
got swallowed up
by the growth of the glaciers
during the Little Ice
Age, villages that
had to be abandoned.
And there's many
paintings and sketches
and artists' depictions from
the 1700s and 1800s showing
these massive glaciers
growing out of the mountains
down into the valleys and
overrunning farms and so on.
Well, with the end of the
Little Ice Age around 1820 1850,
these glaciers start
shrinking back.
Now, as a result of
the shrinking back,
many of the rivers got swollen.
There were proglacial lakes
that broke through and created
some pretty significant
floods, but not
anywhere remotely close to what
we saw at the end of the Great
Ice Age.
But the models of glacier
recession that were in place
were derived from what we had
seen from the Little Ice Age,
the glaciers shrinking back.
And so then here's what happens.
At 15,000 years ago,
the great ice sheets
start shrinking back.
At 13,000 years ago, something
interrupts that process.
>>REGINA: Now, is
this something that
is showing in the carbon dating
that you were talking about?
>>CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, from
the '70s, all right.
>>CARLSON: It's showing up in
oxygen isotope analysis, which
is a proxy for temperature
change, the ratio of oxygen
18 to oxygen 16, and I won't
necessarily get into that,
but somebody can do
the research if they're
interested in finding
out how it works.
But during an ice age,
the heavier oxygen
is preferentially left
behind in the ocean water,
and it's the lighter oxygen
that's evaporated and gets
precipitated in snowfall.
And also, in the oceans itself
when the carbonate shell
bearing creatures create their
shells out of ocean water,
the ocean water carries the
imprint of that oxygen 18,
oxygen 16 ratio.
So from there,
scientists can now just
discern major temperature
changes, right?
Well, two things now happen.
In the early '70s, once they
realized that the ice mostly
was gone in less,
day, than 7,000 years,
which is what they
were assuming--
>>REGINA: Rather than
millions of years.
>>CARLSON: Or hundreds
of thousands of years.
>>REGINA: Hundreds
of thousands, yes.
>>CARLSON: Right, right.
They were faced
with a conundrum.
And it was this.
In order to melt ice, it
takes heat energy, right?
And what they concluded was
that the amount of recession--
OK, if you've got this
huge ice mass that
covers half of North
America, and you're
going to get rid of
it, and let's assume
it starts melting
back, just like we
saw glaciers melting back
during the Little Ice Age,
what they realized was that
roughly 800 feet of ice
had to melt back every year
nonstop for 5,000 years.
And they calculated the amount
of energy needed to do that.
And for the
physicists out there,
we say it's 360 kilocalories
per square centimeter per year.
And they said, OK, well,
what's available in Canada
now where there is no
gigantic ice cap, right?
Just like we're seeing this
snowfall outside right now,
but come warm weather,
that snowfall melts.
It doesn't accumulate
as glacial ice, does it?
So here's what they
were confronted with.
What's available in Canada
right now to melt ice
was only a fraction
of 360 kilocalories
per square centimeter per year.
Well, they looked around,
and they said, well,
what's available on Earth today?
They looked at tropical
oceans and they
looked at African deserts.
And they said, OK, what's
available in African deserts
to melt?
How much heat
energy is available?
And it worked out to be
about 250 kilocalories
per square centimeter per year.
So African deserts
were only about 2/3
of the amount of
energy available--
>>REGINA: That would be
required to melt at that rate.
>>CARLSON: You got it, exactly.
And now, the heat of an African
desert applied to the ice cap
directly for 5,000, 6,000 years,
so what they came up with was
they called it the
energy paradox.
And they struggled with
it for three years.
There's another
conference, I think
it was in 1975 or '76,
where they've come back
and they're addressing again.
And they give up, and
they said basically, there
must be an error in
the data somewhere.
We'll put it on the
shelf and get back
to it, which they haven't done.
But in the interim, of course,
the actual amount of time,
nobody had identified
catastrophic rise events
at that point, you see.
Now, fast forward 20
years to the early '90s,
and we have two expeditions to
Greenland, one European, one
American.
Over five seasons,
they extracted cores
at the summit of the
Greenland ice sheet
all the way down to bedrock.
They pull out those
cores, and they
can look at the year-by-year
layering of glacial ice.
And then they can analyze the
constituents of those layers.
And it's the dust content,
the gaseous content
in entrained air bubbles.
It's the oxygen isotope content.
And from that, they can
discern a lot of things
about the ambient climate,
just like dendrochronologists
can look at tree rings and can
discern, extract information
about the ambient climate.
Was there a lot
of rain that year,
was there a drought, et cetera?
What they realized was that
there were two enormous warming
spikes bracketing this
Younger Dryas period.
The first one seemed
to be the most intense.
And they dated it at
somewhere between like 13,000
to 14,000 years ago.
OK, so picture now, the glaciers
start receding normally.
This could be the result
of the changing geometries
between the Earth
and the sun, what are
called the Milankovitch forces.
Because through the
changing geometries
of the Earth and the sun,
it changes the amount
of incidental solar
radiation that
reaches the surface
of the Earth, right?
If you increase the amount
of solar radiation somewhat,
the glaciers are
going to shrink.
If you decrease the
amount of solar radiation,
glaciers are going
to expand, right?
Well, so everything looks good.
It looks normal, right?
15,000 to 13,000 years ago
the glaciers start shrinking,
but then 13,000 years ago
that nice leisurely pace
is interrupted by this
massive spasm of warming
and concomitant
melting of the ice
and the first catastrophic
rise in sea level that
is now being documented by
the marine geologists, right?
And then what happens is the
climate of the planet shifts
back into full glacial
mode equivalent to what
it had been 18,000 years ago.
For 1,300 years, it's in full,
deep, bitter glacial cold.
And then at 11,600
years ago, there's
a second massive warming
spike, a meltwater pulse 1b,
and in that interval
between those two
that all the great mega
fauna, the woolly mammoths,
the saber tooth cats, the giant
ground sloths, the cave bears,
120 roughly species
of giant mega mammal,
they all went extinct
within that window.
So the prevailing theory has
been for the last roughly half
century that Paleo-Indian
hunters were somehow
responsible, which I think
is a personally and utterly
ludicrous idea.
And the evidence
is now beginning
to emerge that the culture that
proceeded the event of 13,000
years ago, which is
called Clovis Culture,
underwent a near
extinction event as
well, that the whole Clovis
culture culture collapsed.
And those lines of evidence
that are converging
are based on radiocarbon dating
of prevalent cultural activity
in the horizons below
13,000 years ago,
and then it ends,
rock quarries that
had been quarried for
centuries that are now suddenly
abandoned, mythic assemblages,
which are the spear points
and tool kits and
so forth that are
abundant within the
stratigraphic record,
and then at 13,000 years
ago, they disappear.
And the same thing is
showing up now in Europe
as well, which is suggesting
that the human species may have
come very close to extinction.
We know that a lot of the great
mammals did become extinct.
As far as I know, no one
has seen a woolly mammoth
lately except in a museum.
>>REGINA: And this also overlays
with Plato's description
of the ages when Atlantis--
>>CARLSON: Very good, yes.
Plato's places the
seismic event that
sunk Atlantis at
9,000 years prior
to Solon's exile in Egypt.
Well, Solon's exile in Egypt
took place right at 600 BC,
or 2,600 years ago.
2,600 plus 9,000
brings us to 11,600.
Now, coincidence
that Plato's date
exactly coincides with
what hard science has now
identified as being a major
climatic event that involved
a massive spike of
warming, a massive melting
event and a rapid
sea-level rise?
>>REGINA: I would say
it's not coincidence.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, hardly.
>>REGINA: Let me ask.
You're going back to the
carbon core samplings.
Are they able to measure the
solar radiation at all in that?
>>CARLSON: Yes, through
beryllium deposits,
and that is something that I'm
only now beginning to explore.
>>REGINA: Because
that seems like that
would be a really key factor.
>>CARLSON: Yes, yes, yes.
And like I said,
that's something
that I'm only now
beginning to explore.
But there seems to be a
growing mass of evidence
that yes, is showing.
>>REGINA: Should be solar blast.
>>CARLSON: Again,
solar variability.
But on the other hand,
in 2007 Richard Firestone
and his colleagues at
Lawrence Livermore laboratory
discovered that--
now, archaeologists
that had been looking
at these Clovis sites
had identified over
50 Clovis sites
around North America
and even some in Europe.
The culture that seems to be
very consistent with the North
American Clovis was
called the Solutrean, OK?
They had very almost identical
tool kits, cultural norms,
life ways, and so on.
OK, at the horizon where the
Clovis culture disappears
and where the great
mega mammals disappear
from the stratigraphic record,
there's quite frequently
a black carbonaceous layer.
They refer to it as the
black mat layer, right?
It's black.
The carbonaceous content is
primarily because of soot.
Soot would imply what?
>>REGINA: An eruption
of some kind.
>>CARLSON: Well,
fire, things burning.
Actually, what it implies
is the burning biomass.
That's what it would
imply, forest fires,
things burning up.
Volcanic eruptions will
create layers of ash.
And in fact, there
are layers of ash.
And that's most likely
the result of the fact
that when you take 6 million
cubic miles of ice piled up
on the North American continent,
over the center that ice mass,
it's two miles thick.
I mean, that's really
hard to imagine.
>>REGINA: Over 10,000
feet thick, yeah.
>>CARLSON: Over
10,000 feet thick.
That tremendous weight
literally crushes
the crust of the earth
down into the mantle,
maybe as much as a
couple thousand feet.
When that ice is
released, it springs back.
That's called
isostatic rebound, OK?
The crust begins to come back
in this isostatic rebound.
At the same time,
you're removing
all of this mass
from the continent.
You're putting it back
into the ocean basins.
That causes
isostatic depression.
So what you basically have going
on with this rapid deglaciation
is an enormous mass transfer
on the crust of the earth.
Clearly there are going to
be two consequences of that,
both of which are
being well documented--
intense seismicity,
earthquakes--
>>REGINA: Yes, and
crust displacement.
>>CARLSON: Crust
displacement, volcanism.
And both of those are
being documented as being,
I think, clearly secondary
consequences of this phenomena.
>>REGINA: Interesting, OK.
So do you want to
continue on that?
>>CARLSON: Insert something
if you've got a question.
>>REGINA: Well, I'm going
to ask a question now.
So with everything we talked
about in our last conversation,
with evidence left behind
by ancient cultures
in a universal language of
geometry, form, numbers,
letters, et cetera,
where is this indicated?
And I'm trying to
kind of steer you
towards some of the stories,
the least likely stories
that we would hear, even
in the form the fairy tales
and such, that might
embed this information.
And also let's talk
about our deep-seated
fear of annihilation and our
memory loss after this period.
>>CARLSON: Starting
with that, I think
it's clear that
once we recognize
the reality of these
kinds of events,
in contrast to what we were
taught as schoolchildren
about the history of the
Earth, which was basically
a strict uniformity-- we
were taught, I was taught,
and most of us
were, to the extent
that we were made familiar
with Earth history
that geological change
happens one grain of sand
and one drop of water at a time.
>>REGINA: It's orderly.
It's slow.
>>CARLSON: And over millions
of years, it can accumulate.
And this is certainly true.
Yes, over millions of
years, change accumulates,
yes, pretty remarkably, too.
However, what they were not
aware of and that we now know
is it that that orderly
pace of gradualistic change
is punctuated by these
catastrophic events.
I call them points
of discontinuity,
the non-linear phases within
that continuum of change.
And it's those, and the fact
that-- well, consider now
in the last 200,000
years, there may
have been four full
interglacial cycles
that have come and gone, right?
Each one of those could
have been very catastrophic.
And in fact, we now
know, documenting
going over the last couple
hundred thousand years,
there have been a
dozen or more episodes,
which, were they to occur
today, would seriously
stress modern civilization, if
not eliminate it altogether,
not necessarily cause the
extinction of human beings,
but basically cause the global
collapse of civilization.
>>REGINA: With a few
human beings scrambling
to caves for a while.
>>CARLSON: Exactly, exactly.
Now, the
anthropological evidence
shows us that
modern humans, just
like us, with the
same intelligence,
have been around-- and this
is a conservative number--
between 150,000
and 180,000 years.
And I'm going just on
the hard evidence of--
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
Michael Cremo's work,
for example, would take it
back to millions of years.
>>CARLSON: Right, and
most anthropologists
are going to dispute that.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CARLSON: But we don't need
to go there to make the point.
Even if we go back
180,000 years,
and we have modern skeletons
now that have been found,
documented, and dated
at 180,000 years.
If we think of a human
generation as being 25 years,
that's 7,000 generations
of humans, right?
Now, in 180,000
years, like I said,
there has been probably
a dozen or more events,
which if they were
to recur today,
could cause mass mortality,
serious stressing
of modern civilization, even
to the point of extinction
of modern civilization,
basically pulling the plug.
Because modern civilization is
now so interconnected, right?
If we have a Katrina, as
an example, that wipes out
a large part of one city,
that's only one small part
of the intact
infrastructure, right?
If we go an order of
magnitude above that
and say we wipe out
10 major cities,
well, we're going
to recover from it,
but it's going to cause
serious economic ripples,
global economic
ripples that could
take a decade or
two to recover from.
If we go two orders
of magnitude,
now we're hovering on the
brink of global civilization
collapse.
Three orders of
magnitude, we're gone.
Civilization is
over as we know it.
Now, events can
be documented that
have occurred on that scale.
>>REGINA: I was going to say
you've constructed a timeline.
>>CARLSON: Yes, I did.
>>REGINA: With these
various events.
>>CARLSON: Yes, I did.
>>REGINA: OK, and then
you show this little spot
at then end that
brings us up to now.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, yeah.
And there seems to be a tempo.
It doesn't seem like these
things are just distributed
randomly through time.
It appears that there is
a tempo to these things.
>>REGINA: Can I read
your quote on this?
>>CARLSON: Please do.
>>REGINA: "A cosmic tempo
based on sacred geometry,
encoded in myths and
mystical architecture
throughout the Earth, governs
the unfolding of world ages,
the rise and fall
of civilizations,
and is ultimately the very
basis of apocalyptic prophecy."
Right?
>>CARLSON: Did I say that?
>>REGINA: Yeah, you said that.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about where it's buried
and where it's hiding
in plain sight.
You talked about
the one in Chartres,
the information that was
embedded there in these four
distinct 5,600-year cycles.
>>CARLSON: Yes, and
that same depiction
is portrayed on
dozens of cathedrals.
It's as if that Gothic building
age was inaugurated in order
to bring forward things that had
been classified, if you will,
and put them out there.
And I think that the
information that's
encoded in those cathedrals,
and just like Victor Hugo said,
there are textbooks in stone.
The information
that's encoded there
was really intended not for
1200 1300 AD, but for 2100 AD.
>>REGINA: Absolutely, to help
us regain, A, some memory,
and give us a heads up.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
Now, salient example--
Sphinx in Egypt,
which is now quite well known
among alternative historians.
>>REGINA: Robert Schoch's work.
>>CARLSON: Robert Schoch,
John Anthony West, yeah,
going back to--
>>REGINA: John Anthony West
will go way further out
on a limb than Robert
Schoch, though.
>>CARLSON: Oh, yeah, he
doesn't have anything to lose.
Robert Schoch is a tenured
professor at Boston,
so he's got to play it
a little conservative.
>>REGINA: Very conservatively.
But not John Anthony
West, and if you
go into ancient doctrines,
it's way further out than that.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, yeah.
Now, the Sphinx
itself, if we look
at the composite-- and
this suggests to me
that we can look at all
of the composite animals
from mythology in an
astronomical sense.
Sphinx is a lion
and a man, right?
What does that suggest
within the zodiacal wheel?
Aquarius and Leo, this
axis that we're basically
transiting right now.
As the vernal equinox is moving
in the next few centuries,
over that point in the
zodiacal wheel where
we're looking across that great
cosmic circle at the other side
of that axis, and we see
that right there, boom,
the hammer came down and
something really, really
intense happen to this planet.
And it was intense.
As a barometer of
its intensity, we
can look at the loss of
species that occurred.
Because loss of species
is a direct indication
of loss of habitat, right?
The mass extinction
that occurred
at the end of the last ice age
is the greatest mass extinction
that has occurred on this
planet in 5 million years.
Basically what we had was
the mega mammals, which
are defined as any animal
over about 44 kilograms
or 100 pounds in body weight,
is defined as a mega mammal.
Roughly 120, depending on
how you define the species,
and there's a little bit
of difference of opinion,
but roughly 120 species met
their demise in that window,
the Younger Dryas window, that
transition out of the ice age,
which what a
geologist would call
the Pleistocene-Holocene
transition, right?
Now, the number of mega
mammal species on Earth
today is about that same number.
If we go back into the depths
of the ice age and then back
from there, tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands
of years, for example,
in North America,
there were more large mammals
living in North America
than there are in the
Serengeti Plain today.
>>REGINA: Yeah, elephants.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, there were
four species of proboscideans,
or elephants-- four.
Yeah, that's amazing
when you think about it.
The American Pleistocene lion,
which roamed around-- that
would have been right here.
I think they've found
specimens in Colorado.
It was nearly the size
of a horse, right?
The saber-toothed cat,
which everybody knows about.
>>REGINA: And we see these
depicted symbolically
in myths and such and think,
wow, what an imagination.
>>CARLSON: Yeah,
Graham just recently
emailed me a link
to what appears
to be a Stonehenge-like
structure 40
feet below the surface
of Lake Michigan.
And on one of the stones-- and
the photographs I've seen now
are fairly grainy--
but still, on one
of the stores it looks like
what is etched into the stone
is a carving of a mastodon.
Now, as it turns out,
there is a period
between 6,000 and
9,000 years ago
where Lake Michigan was perhaps
as much as 300 feet lower
than now.
So this area where this thing
is built was actually exposed,
was, in fact, exposed
to the atmosphere
for about 3,000 years.
And somebody apparently built
a Stonehenge-like structure
there.
This hasn't been confirmed.
>>REGINA: It's fascinating.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, it
hasn't been confirmed yet.
I'm waiting to see what
subsequent research discloses.
But on one of the
stones, there's
what appears to be a mastodon.
Now, as far as I know, no
mastadons in North America
survived later than about
11,000 or 11,600 years ago.
So it could be just
a vestigial memory,
trying to preserve the
memory of the creatures.
There was some
traditions, and I've
forgotten where the
source of it was,
that seemed to imply that
perhaps mastadons might have
even been domesticated
to some extent,
like modern elephants, which
I find extremely fascinating.
But in any case, what we had was
we had profound global changes
that terminated the
2-million-year-plus period
of the Pleistocene and
inaugurated the Holocene,
which is the modern geological
epoch that we've been in.
And its inception is usually
given now in the textbooks
as 11,600 years ago.
And it's associated with a
rapid melting of the ice,
sudden rise in sea
level, and that's
when, by coincidence, Plato
says Atlantis was drowned.
Now, you remember what
I said about isostatcy,
this vertical movement
of the Earth's crust?
If you're rapidly dumping
hundreds of feet of ocean water
into the ocean basins where
the crust is the thinnest,
what do you think is going
to happen to the ocean bottom
to compensate for this
additional weight?
It's going to sink.
It's going to subside.
There's nothing
pseudoscientific about assuming
that there could
have been an island
complex in the
mid-Atlantic right
where Plato placed it,
that could have sunk.
Nothing pseudoscientific
about that.
>>REGINA: No, not
at all, and there
are people such as Edgar
Cayce, for example,
who gave their renderings in
more modern history, who also
said that within a period
close to our lifetimes,
we would start seeing the
rise of that continent again,
meaning there has to be some
kind of serious activity
going on for that to happen.
>>CARLSON: He might have
meant that metaphorically.
Either way, even if
was metaphorically--
>>REGINA: I think it was
literally, but yeah, go ahead.
>>CARLSON: Well, in the
sense that, yeah, Atlantis
is going to rise
again in the sense
that we're now in
a position where
we can actually scientifically
verify Plato's account.
And Plato's account
is very detailed
in terms of its geography
and its geology and so on.
And if you go through,
like I have done,
line by line by line,
what you'll find
is that it all syncs up with
what we now know about geology.
And there is hard
scientific evidence
that along the
mid-Atlantic Ridge
there is a sunken, what they
call a microcontinent, which
is just about the size that
Plato described for Atlantis.
And its there, and it has a
great mountain range on it,
just like Plato described.
And the tips of those mountains
are the Azores Islands,
which is where--
>>REGINA: That's right.
Mount Pico is supposed
to be the remnant of it,
and it still remains visible.
It's there.
You can go to it.
>>CARLSON: Yes, yes.
The 400-foot rise in sea level,
post-glacial 400-foot rise
in sea level, roughly
reduce those islands to 50%.
But when you add and
the fact that there
had to be isostatic
compensation that occurred
in the form of the ocean
bottom literally dropping,
and if it's comparable to
what we see the rise over--
if you go up by
Hudson Bay, which
was the center of
the great ice sheet,
you can see shorelines
that are 1,000, 1,200.
1,500 feet above sea level.
Now, you take that and
add that to the 400 feet,
we're talking about
potentially thousands
of feet between sea level
change and the ocean bottom.
Now, it could very well be that
when we adjust for all of that,
that the entire microcontinent
of the Azores Plateau
may have been above water.
And interestingly,
there is documentation
that the Gulf Stream
during the ice age
diverted south just north
of the Azores plateau.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>CARLSON: So you've
got the Azores Plateau.
Instead of going way up
here by the British Isles--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: Now,
if you're looking
for prime habitable real estate
during the ice age, that might
have been a very nice place.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] Yes, exactly.
Well, now there's
so many streams of
thought we can go into in this.
But what's interesting is
that as that was passed on,
as you say, from Egyptian
priests in ancient times
to Solon, Critias, down Plato
and so forth and then on
now to us, we're getting
into a time where--
and I referred to this earlier--
there's this mass amnesia.
We're desperately seeking
clues as to our past.
And people like you and others
are finding these clues now
that have been laid down
there for us to see,
hiding in plain
sight for all of us.
>>CARLSON: Hiding in plain site.
>>REGINA: We have
this systemic fear
of annihilation, of mass
annihilation, as a people.
>>CARLSON: Where
does that come from?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Where does that come from?
And now people are going
through-- we talked off camera.
Psychics are beginning
to look into phenomena.
The work of Dolores Cannon
and many, many other people
have those in regressions.
I've been there.
Dolores regressed
me back to the time
of the destruction of Atlantis.
That wasn't where
I wanted to go.
I thought I was going
somewhere relatively modern
but ended up there.
And again, this horrid feeling
that we were losing everything
and that we were going to
have to start over again.
And it was a
fascinating experience,
but it's still a little
depressing to me.
That energy is so alive,
I get teared up a lot
if I even think about it.
A lot of people are
getting teared up,
but they don't know
why they're teared up.
Let's talk about the
clues, where we are,
and where we are
in that cycle now.
Why now?
We're remembering now.
>>CARLSON: If we look at
the hard scientific record,
what we see is we go back a
couple hundred thousand years.
And we can see that the climate
of the planet has oscillated.
And there have
been periods where
the glaciers have grown
enormously and then
rapidly shrunk away.
And if you can picture glaciers
growing, simultaneously
sea levels dropping,
and as sea level drops,
coastlines migrate, in some
cases hundreds of miles.
So while you're simultaneously
losing enormous swathes of land
to the ice, you're
gaining new land
as the continental shelves
are being exposed, OK?
And people who are
surviving these events
are probably, obviously,
vacating the areas
where the ice is
amassing and migrating
into these newly exposed
lands as sea level drops.
>>REGINA: And supposedly a
lot of that happened around
the time of Atlantis.
People went off to the Yucatan.
They went to a lot of areas.
>>CARLSON: Remember what I was
saying about meltwater pulse 1a
and 1b?
That first meltwater
pulse clearly
could have
destabilized the region
along the mid-Atlantic
Ridge, causing sea level
to rise, maybe 25% of its total
rise during that time, right?
At that point, you might
find that a culture,
a maritime culture-- and I
don't go into necessarily
like crystal technologies
or flying machines,
only because you don't need to.
I'm not saying that that
couldn't have existed.
>>REGINA: No, but yeah,
we've talked a lot about it
in a lot of interviews,
but let's talk
about what you see when
you don't even go that fat.
>>CARLSON: Well,
what you could have
seen-- I think of a modern
historical model that
might have provided
an analogy from which
we could start thinking
would be the Phoenicians.
They were a very
sophisticated culture.
They had advanced
navigational skills.
They were seafaring.
And what does Plato describe?
If we go to what
Plato describes,
that's exactly what he
describes, a very wealthy,
seafaring culture.
>>REGINA: Advanced culture.
>>CARLSON: Advanced
culture that was carrying
on trade, that had colonies.
>>REGINA: Civilization, culture.
>>CARLSON: Yes, OK.
Now, with those
changes in climate
that began to occur at
the end of the ice age,
that could have caused
enormous disruption
to a civilization that could
have existed for 10,000 years
or more on that location,
on the geographical spot
on the surface of the Earth.
And it's interesting
how Plato describes it.
It had been a very
benevolent culture,
very wise and not materialistic,
and then something shifted.
And instead of just
intercultural contact
with other, they
became imperialistic.
And they went on a
campaign of conquest.
And this led to this great
war between the Atlanteans
and the Proto-Athenians,
who were
the predecessors of the
Athenians of Plato's day,
or at least of Solon's day.
And there was this gigantic war,
and then the Proto-Athenians
were able to mobilize
all of the groups
within the pillars of Heracles.
And they fought
off the Atlanteans,
drove them out back outside
the pillars of Heracles,
and right after that was when
the event happened that caused
their disappearance.
>>REGINA: It's
interesting, because if you
go into other circle,
they'll say, well,
it was because of the
selfish, greedy nature
of the human beings at
that time and technology
that they had access
to at that time.
But what you're saying is that
you don't need to go that far.
>>CARLSON: No, you don't
need to go that far.
I'm not saying that that
wasn't an element of it.
But I'm just saying--
>>REGINA: It may have been.
I mean, when I look back
on that one destruction--
there were three destructions.
One of the earlier
destructions, I believe,
you were looking at very
sophisticated technology,
but it wasn't being used
in a usurious, negative way
at that time.
It was used for
agriculture and such.
But it was employed when the
Earth became destabilized.
>>CARLSON: See,
what you're getting
at there is very
important, because if we
go to like the Greek myth of
the great flood, Deucalion
and Pyrrha-- being sort
of a kabbalist myself,
I always look at names
and words and what
they can teach us, right?
Deucalion basically
means two lions, right?
Pyrrha means fire.
Suggests-- hm, lions brings
up, invokes the idea of Leo.
Fire, again-- well
these could be hints.
I mean, we find these things
scattered all throughout.
When the flood came, the
arc that Deucalion built
rode on the flood waters for
nine days and nights, right?
When we go to the myth of the
birth of Apollo and Artemis,
the mother Leto was
impregnated by Zeus, right?
She labored for nine
days and nine nights.
You see, you find
these kinds of things.
We were in the last discussion--
>>REGINA: Allegorically they
keep repeating these numbers
and cycles, including nine.
>>CARLSON: There's
that number nine again.
>>REGINA: Nine, yeah.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, nine, right?
Well again, if you go
nine days and nine nights,
if you do the
numbers on there, you
discover that it's
12,960, right?
That number comes up, which is
that half-precessional cycle
again, see?
I'm not saying that
it's proven, but it
could be that these numbers
were deliberately encoded
to carry information forward.
>>REGINA: So, we only
have a minute or so left.
So where we now?
>>CARLSON: Oh, boy.
I thought we were just
getting warmed up.
>>REGINA: Oh, we were.
This is fun.
But you have to come back.
You have to do a
lot more of this.
I mean, I've been fascinated.
So let's talk about, because
people are wondering, OK,
that's all cool, so
all the signs are there
hiding in plain sight, where
are we now in that cycle?
>>CARLSON: Several
things-- I'll talk fast.
Several things are
converging here.
One, we're coming to
a new appreciation,
recognition of the
importance of ancient myth,
legend, epic stories,
and so forth,
realizing that
these are vehicles
for transmitting profound
scientific information.
That's happening on one hand.
On the other hand, geologists
are looking at the Earth
and realizing slowly
that the Earth itself
carries the imprint of cosmic
events in the form of craters
and astroblemes.
>>REGINA: We never even
got to comets and all that.
>>CARLSON: Didn't even
get to that, no, we didn't
>>REGINA: No, we didn't.
But that's OK.
I mean, what you have to say
is so rich, and we're OK.
>>CARLSON: Then
on the other hand,
astronomers are looking
into the near-Earth space
and discovering, guess what?
We're not alone.
And in fact, near-Earth
space is densely
populated with all
kinds of stuff,
and it's flying by
us all the time.
We just didn't have the
technological eyes to see it.
But now we're seeing that every
month, there are close calls.
You remember what happened on
February 15, 2014, Chelyabinsk,
Siberia?
An object suddenly came in.
Coincidentally at the same time,
the closest documented asteroid
flyby was happening, two
separate events but right
at the same time.
Are these coincidences?
Now to me, that was like
a little warning shot.
Tungusta, 1908, which
we didn't talk about,
which needs to be talked about
because we've only just begun
to extract the mysteries
that have been conveyed
to the human species
by that event
and what that had
to teach us and how
that is consistent with
ancient traditions that
have come to us
through Mithraism,
through the Mayan traditions,
through Zoroastrianism
and what they understood.
And why were our
ancient ancestors
so obsessed with the
heavens and the events
in the celestial domain?
And that would be a topic that
we should pick up on another--
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
We'll go-- yes, we will.
Just a final thought
right now for us.
People are still
waiting for the big one.
What's the timing?
Looking roughly
within these cycles,
where are we in these cycles?
>>CARLSON: I would say
we have enough time.
>>REGINA: To do what, bake
brownies or do a few more
generations or many more?
>>CARLSON: We've got-- see,
we have to get into this.
But I think that we
human species ultimately
came from the cosmos and to
the cosmos we must return.
>>REGINA: I'm with
you on a lot of that.
>>CARLSON: And part of
our return to the cosmos
is that we create-- what we
do is we are in a position
now, which has perhaps
never happened before,
where we can be the
protectors of this planet.
Because we're realizing
that this planet
now is vulnerable to a much
larger scale of phenomena.
And I think of all the
species on this planet,
I think the whatever
the wisdom of nature,
however you want to
think of it, whether it's
God or divine purpose or
just the wisdom of nature,
we evolved because
we have foresight,
and we can piece together
these, connect the dots.
And we have within our hands
the power to break the cycle.
But only if we
become aware of it
and only if we grow
spiritually and psychologically
and realize that-- just
like in the book of Matthew
when one of the
disciples asked Jesus,
and this is what
we can end with,
he said, how are we going
to know when the end of days
is at hand?
And he said, well, as it
was in the days of Noah
when the people were eating
and drinking and marrying
and giving in
marriage until the day
that Noah entered the
Ark and the great flood
came and swept them
all away, so will it
be again in the days of the
coming of the Son of Man.
This is metaphorical, but what
he's saying there, I think,
is that if we get so
obsessed and so concerned
with the trivia of day-to-day
life and forget the great plan,
just as the Hopi Indians
said, now we open ourselves
to vulnerability.
>>REGINA: That's
beautiful, going back
to the Hopi legend for
these times, I think,
is a very important clue.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: So everyone
can look that one up.
>>CARLSON: Remembering
the plan the creator,
in the words of the Hopis.
>>REGINA: Yes.
On that, thank you.
We'll definitely do this again.
What a fascinating
ride with you.
I just loved it.
I got to sit and
listen most the time.
I could just, oh, really?
I loved it.
Thank you so much.
>>CARLSON: Thanks for having me.
>>REGINA: To look more
deeply into Randall's work,
you can see one of
his many lectures
on YouTube, as well as
going to his website,
sacredgeometryinternational.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]